---
title: Last Time On BubbiesBlog...
date: 2016-10-16
categories:
tags:
---

I don't even know how or where to begin...Sometimes when life happens, it hits you all at once. This year in particular seems to be the year of life happenings for everyone. Needless to say, this year sucks! I lost my Godmother, my grandmother, I moved further away from my hometown, my family, and friends, I quit my job and embarked on a full time journey to become a splendid coder. I have never felt more stressed, uneasy and self-doubting, and yet I have never felt more at peace. This journey I am taking, though unconventional, is part of HIS greater plan for me, and I am happy to oblige. I have learned so much and harnessed my skills in a way I never imagined possible on my own. But I know that I am never alone, not when I have HIM, and not when I have my bubbies!

I felt it best to introduce the idea of a bubbies since I will be referring to my blog site as the 'BubbiesBlog.' Therefore, I should spend some time to describe what exactly is a bubbies. Well, it all began with my cat, Rufus. He is the first and only littlest bubs. It is a term used for endearment derived from the X-men's Wolverine's catch phrase "Bubs." Anyways, my life partner, Tim, had noticed that the littlest bubbies was apparently receiving significantly more attention than he was at the time and wished to be known as a bubbies. So there you have it, the term Bubbies was born!

Now on to more pertinent issues. Recently, my cohort has been dabbling in the dark arts of Front-End magic (HTML, CSS, and the ever devious JS). Oh and for those of you who didn't read my previous post: yes, I am a student at The Iron Yard in Durham. I am enrolled in a course for Back-End development, particularly Ruby on Rails. So, you may ask, why mention dark arts, I mean Front-End skills? Because, I like magic, I mean coding (what is the difference really). It's not that I am afraid of, or even unwilling to write Front-End code. On the contrary I rather enjoy writing HTML and CSS on my own, and using templates like Bootstrap and Jekyll, the more I practice! But JS... JS and API development in particular... now that's a fantastic beast I just cannot seem to identify with.

Now API's I have had my fair practice with. I feel like I have developed (ha!) a knack for, created a method (another code reference) if you will, on how to create a REST API using Sinatra with all of the appropriate folders and filenames. If you don't believe me than just take a look at some of the REST API's I've developed on my GitHub page: <https://github.com/kteich88>.

I rather enjoy writing the Back-End CRUD code for a REST API, but the magic that occurs between Back-End and the beauty of Front-End perplexes me. So much so, that I cannot even write about it! I just don't know where to begin... ajax, JQuery, helpers, and handlers? Everything on an HTML page must be able to be accessed simultaneously. These terms, and their functions (no joke this time) I am only vaguely familiar with, but only just enough that I can reference them, not enough to properly put them into practice. On another note entirely, how does one deploy an app to Heroku? I sort of know the process. It involves having a git repo, and running several heroku statements in terminal. I've "made" three apps so far, but they are forbidden from view. Ah well, there is still more to learn and tomorrow is Monday! You thought I was going to say another day, didn't you...? Well until next time, I am super excited to learn more about API development, JS, and how to connect a Front-End HTML page complete with the beauty of CSS to my REST Back-End CRUD!
