---
title: Wake Up, Chief.
date: 2017-1-01
categories:
tags:
---

"Wake me - when you need me."

New years are all about beginnings. People set goals. They reflect, for the first time after a busy holiday season, about the future. They imagine. They dream.

Some small part of me screams that it's so arbitrary we celebrate the new year based on a revolution around the sun. The rest of me will take it. I'll always take the reason to be hopeful.

As people celebrate another sun-orbit-year-thingy, I can't help but to look back before I look forward. I guess you could say it was pretty eventful:

1. I quit my first grown-up, full-time job as a teacher.
2. I packed up everything and moved 5 hours south from Maryland to North Carolina.
3. I pooled my life's savings to attend The Iron Yard in Durham as a full-time student for 12 grueling weeks.
4. I graduated. And by graduated, I mean I survived the aforementioned grueling weeks.
5. I visited family in Maryland and Pennsylvania for the holidays (about 19 hours driving total).
6. I came back.

With the holiday hiring freeze thawing out, many of my classmates and I are now on the hunt for the fabled, "entry-level software development position reasonably close to where I live that pays me decently well and doesn't drain my soul," job.

Actually, we're hunting for about 20 of them.

I won't tell you why you should hire me or my classmates. That post will come later. This post is about beginnings.

After having some time to reflect, I realized that my own beginnings - the life I came from - are what make these new ones so exciting. How am I supposed to stay authentically me in the midst of the changes I anticipate? It helps me to think that these new beginnings don't replace the old arcs of who I am. They will redirect them or rekindle them in ways I didn't expect.

It's funny that this post is, itself, a beginning.

I don't know myself what the post has begun. Is it a blog about me? About coding? About cryptically inserted Halo quotes? GoshDARN do I love mah Halo quotes.

Honestly, I can't tell you. That's the thing about the beginnings. No matter how much you try to predict or adjust the ending, you always have to wait and see what happens.

The best thing about waking up is the moment before you truly are conscious. Dreams and reality intersect, and for a brief time, you can't tell which is which. The next best thing is when you fully wake, and work hard to make the same thing happen again.

"Wake up, Chief. I need you."  
